Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said the phase of intense
fighting against Hamas in Rafa is
finally coming to an end but he warned
the war would not finish until the
islamist group no longer controls the
Gaza Strip in his first television
interview on Israeli TV since the war
started in October Mr Netanyahu said the
end of the Rafa offensive would allow
troops to be freed up to help in the
northern border with Lebanon where
fighting with the Hezbollah armed group
has escalated meanwhile the Israeli
defense minister yoav Galant has beg a
visit to Washington where he is due to
hold talks about the conflict and with
President Biden about his ceasefire deal
but Mr Netanyahu said the main objective
was still to destroy Hamas before the
war
concludes if there is an agreement it
will be an agreement according to our
terms and our terms are not to end the
war to leave Gaza and leave Hamas as it
is I refuse to leave Hamas as it is we
need to eliminate it let's speak to
sebas Usha now who is in Jerusalem
following developments there good to see
you Sebastian so what more do we know
about the Israeli government's plan now
for Gaza and going
forward well I think the message that Mr
Netanyahu is giving there to a domestic
audience was one that we've already been
hearing from the Israeli government the
Israeli military over the past few weeks
but Rafa they very much made out that
this was the last major military
operation that they were carrying out uh
in Gaza that that that was where they
believe that the remaining Hamas
battalions were where hostages were
potentially and also where perhaps for
leadership of Hamas in Gaza was based
that's continuing uh we've had reports
that Israeli tanks will be moving into
the North and the west of Rafa uh we've
heard from uh the Hamas armed wing and
Islamic Jihad that they have been
fighting back with mortar bombs and uh
with rocket propelled uh um grenades and
there's also fighting that's continuing
in part of a center of Gaza too where
Israel doesn't have full control of a
particular area and in Gaza City we saw
over the weekend but there were strikes
uh on several locations so
this this this sense that Mr Netanyahu
is giving that the intense fighting is
over in Gaza that may well be true but
as he said and as we've heard from all
Israeli officials the actual war in Gaza
is not coming to an end there's no sense
but the
that Mr Netanyahu set himself as
anywhere over key thing that he said was
the redeployment of some of those troops
to the northern border where the battle
with Hezbollah which has stayed mostly
within red lines of both sides has again
been escalating and overnight there were
more Israeli strikes inside Lebanon on
what they said were hisbah targets you
mentioned the Israeli defense minister
yab Galant he's now in the US one of the
key things he's going to be talking
about where concern in the US and the
rest of world has been Rising is over
what might happen between the Israeli
forces and hasbullah and how that would
involve the rest of Lebanon and
potentially bring the region as the
concern has has been The Wider region
more directly into the conflict I think
that concern is probably at its highest
pitch at the moment and Sebastian is
there any sense of any return to talks
when it comes to a hostage ceasefire
deal well Mr Nar again he talked about
that but I mean what he would was saying
was that he isn't accepting a ceasefire
as things stand which is a permanent
ceasefire as a starting point now that
isn't what is in the current ceasefire
proposal that's a three-phase deal where
confidence would be built up in the
first phase where there'd be a temporary
ceasefire talks would continue and then
hopefully in a second phase there would
be a permanent ceasefire Hamas though
has continue to insist that it wants a
permanent ceasefire to be nailed in from
the start and there was there has been a
h response to what Mr Netanyahu said
last night uh to Israeli TV and saying
that as far as they're concerned that
shows that Mr Netanyahu is not
interested in a ceasefire deal at the
moment okay Sebastian